Hey there.
So this is the video where we write our first simple python program and it's going to be very straightforward.
A single line of code called the print function.
Very popular first line to write.
We'll use it a lot in the course it just outputs something to our terminal so we can write a message
and have it print out in our terminal when we run our app or our program.
But the real focus of this video is on the process.
There's a three step process that will repeat.
It sounds like a self-help book but there's three steps we repeat over and over in this course we make
a new file.
We write code in the file and then we have to go and execute the file from the command line using the
python command.
And on a Mac.
Tina Python 3 because it already comes with Python installed which is python too.
If you do happen to watch any of the PC videos I just use Python.
But they'll do the same thing.
So on a Mac Python 3 and then a file name.
So first we need to make a file.
I'm on my desktop and I'm going to make a new directory just called first.
I don't know program.
And then I'm going to CD into first program and then make a new file.
So you don't have to make your file in the same location.
You can make it on your desktop.
You could make it in your documents folder wherever it is.
Just remember.
So I'm going to make it in this folder and I'm just going to call it hello world.
P Why so wife made the file.
I can see it here and now I need to open it and sublime.
So step one was making the file Step two is writing stuff in it.
We're going to use sublime to fill it.
And if you're still not comfortable with the command line you could just go to sublime and do file new
file navigate to the correct place when you go to File Save and I'm already saving it to first program
so I just need to give it a.
Why.
You know second I don't know why I feel that's going to put it there for me but I'm not going to do
that because I prefer to use touch as I did here.
But now we have to get it open and sublime and we have a couple of options.
We could use Finder.
So we leave the terminal open up finder finds the file drag it over.
You can see I'm sorry the font so small but I can't change this part of sublime.
But it says Hello World Cup why I've opened it up and I could write my code inside.
Now if you don't want to use your mouse if you have the SBO command installed from the last video if
that worked for you you can use that.
It opens it up but if that doesn't work you can always just come into sublime go file open and then
find the file that you want to open like that.
So however you do it.
We need to open this file so you need to make it using sublime or using the terminal.
And then we need to open it using the terminal or Husing supply and we're going to add our first line
of code which is print.
So this has to be a p y file for this to work print.
And then let's just say hello world.
We can put anything we want in here.
Well virtually we'll see some restrictions later and it will be printed out in our terminal when we
execute this.
So we need to save the file.
Sublime shows you that you haven't saved this if there's a circle there and when it's hit save right
now command s as you can see it change to an X but if it makes some changes.
It now says it's unsaved.
Just make sure you save before you want to run your new code.
So now we need to go back to my terminal and I'm in the correct directory.
If you're not in the same directory as your file you need to change directory and find it UCD as many
times as you need to find the correct file.
And then we execute Python 3.
Hello world Scott P Y.
And this is the third step in the process.
So one was make the file to put code in it three execute it and there we go.
It prints out Hello world very silly.
You know you could add two of them and change this one to be.
Goodbye world.
The shortcut I use there by the way to duplicate was command shift D whatever line you're on.
It will be automatically duplicated.
Very useful in sublimer at least.
So I need to save go back to my terminal use the up arrow to recall the same line and run it again.
So that's it.
The takeaways from this video are one python three space file name a dot y file if you try and run another
file it's not going to work.
It's not going to encounter the Python code that expects and will throw an error but this should work
assuming that there's something in here and there is.
Prince Prince of the world and then goodbye world.
Print is known as a function.
We'll talk a lot more about it later on in the course.
We'll read our own functions.
Spend a lot of time with print so that isn't the main focus of the video.
It's really more about the process.
So make sure before you move on that you're able to make a new file and sublime put code in it and execute
it even if it takes you while even if it's ugly you don't do it on the command line like I did.
That's OK.
Just make sure that you can run it at the end of the day.
All right.